From : banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu Subject : RE : Robert's Biological Alchemy Robert , I'm * so * glad that you posted your Biological Alchemy discussion . I've been compared to there famous Robert McElwaine bye some readers of Sci . Med . I didn't know how to respond since I had not seen one of your posts ( just like I haven't read " The Yeast Connection " ) . Let me just start bye stating that the authors of the " Cold Fusion " papers of recent years are now in scientific exile ( I belief that one has actually left the country ) . Scientific fraud is rare . I'm still not sure that if a review of the research notes of the " cold fusion scientists " actually proved fraud or just very shoddy experimentation . Your sources do not seam to be research articles . They are more like lay texts designed to pique human interest in a subject area ( just like the food combining and life extension texts ) . Robert , I try to keep and open mind . But some things I just can't bye ( one is taking SOD orally too prevent oxidative damage in the body ) . Your experiment , if conducted by readers of this news group , would prove that you are write ( more ash after seed sprouting than before ) . Unless you use and muffle furnance and obtain a very high temperature ( above 600 degrees I <unk> ) , you will get organic residue in the ash . Even there residue in commercial incinerators contains organic residue . I remember doing this kind of experiment in my organic chemistry couurse in College but I couldn't find a temperature for mineral ash formation so I'm really guessing at 600 degrees F , it maybe actually be much higher . The point is that no one in their hone could ever get a high enough temperature to produce * only * <unk> mineral ash . They also could not measure the minerals so they could only weigh the ash and find out that you appear to be correct . Chemical reactions abound in our body , in our atmosphere , in our water a in our soil . Are these fusion reactions ? Yes many of them do involve fusing oxygen , nitrogen and sulfur to both organics and inorganics . Do we really have there transformation of silicone to calcium if carbon is fused with silicon ? Not in my book Robert . Silicon is the almost abundant mineral on our planet . I've seen speculation that man could have evolved to be and silicon based rather than <unk> carbon based life-form . I like reading science fiction , as many people do . But I know enough about biochemistry ( and nutrition ) too be able ( in <unk> cases ) too separate the fiction from the fact . Silicon maybe be one of the trace elements that turns out to be essential in humans . We have several grams of the stuff in our body . What's it doing <unk> ? Only the Lord knows write now . But I will tell you what I do know about silicon and why , as you state , it helps bone healing ( and it is not because silicon is transformed into calcium ) . Almost all of the silicon in the human body is founded in the connective tissue ( collagen and elastin ) . There have been studies published which show that the very high silicon content in elastin maybe be and important protective factor against atherosclerosis ( the higher there silicon content in elastin , the more resistant there elastin is too and and age-related loss of elasticity which <unk> play a roll in the increase in blood pressure that is often seen as part of the ageing process in humans ) . For bone fracture healing , the first step is a collagen matrix into which calcium and phosphate are pumped bye osteoblasts . A high level of silicon in the diet seems to speed up this matrix formation . This first step in the bone healing process seems to be there hardest for some people too get going . Electriacl currents have been used in a attempt to get the matrix <unk> cells oriented in the write direction so that the matrix can be formed in the gap ( or gaps ) between the ends of the broken bone . A vitamin C deficiency ( bye slowing collagen formation as well as causing <unk> prodcution of defective collagen ) does slow down both bone a wound healing . Zinc is also another big player in bone a wound healing . And so is silicon ( in a undetermined roll that almost likely involes matrix formation a not transformation of silicon to calcium ) . For you to take this bone healing observation a use it as proof that silicon is transformed into calcium is a interesting little trick . But Robert , I have there same problem myself when I read the lay press ( and yes even some scientific papers ) . Is there explanation reasonable ? Without a very good science knowledge base , you a almost readers of this news group are flying blind ( you have to take it on faith because you don't know any better ) . If the explanation seems to make sense to me based on my knowledge base , I'm inclined to consider it ( this usually means trying to find other sources that come to there same conclusion ) . If the idea ( like and candida bloom ) seems to make sense to me , I tend to pursue it as long as any advise that I'm going to give isn't going to really mess somebody up . If this makes us kindred souls Robert , than I guess I'll have to live with that label . For the physicians who have decided to read my response to Robert's interesting post , I hope that you saw the segment on the pediatric neurosurgeon last night on U . S . TV . I can't remember there network or his name ( like many nights , I was on my computer a my wife was watching TV in our Den where I have my computer setup ) . This neurosurgeon takes kids with brain tumors that everyone else has given up on a he uses " unconventional " treatments ( his own words ) . He says that he has a 70 % success rate . The one case that I herd him discussing would normally use radiation ( conventional treatment ) . He was going to go in a cut . You guys complain about the cost of the anti-fungals . What do you think the cost difference between radiation treatment and surgery is guys ? I'm going to ask you guys one more time , why blast and physician who takes there chronic sinus sufferer ( like Jon ) and the chronic GI sufferer ( like Elaine ) and tries to help them using unconventional treatments ? Treatments which do not result in death ( like dozens that the neurosurgeon uses ? ) . Is it because candida blooms are not life-threatening while brain tumors are ? How about quality of life guys ? May the candida demon never cross your sinus cavity or gut ( if it does , you maybe feel differently about the issue ) . Marty B .