From : banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu Subject : Re : How often do kids fall sick ? etc . In article <ASHWIN.93May2131021@leo.gatech.edu> , ashwin @ [ Agatech.edu ( Ashwin Ram ) writes : > Our 20 - month son has started falling sick quite often every since he > started going to day care . He was at hone for the first year a he did > not fall sick even once . Now it seems like he has some sort of cold or > flu pretty much once and month . Most of the time <unk> cold leads to a ear > infection as well , with the result that he ends up being on antibiotics > 3 weeks out of 4 . I know kids in day care fall sick more often , but we > are beginning to wonder how often " more often " really is , <unk> our > son is more susceptible or has lower immunity then average ... > Are there any studies that can help answer some of these questions ? When kids stayed in the hone until kindergarden or 1st grade , infection incidence was much lower because exposure was lower . Some studies suggest that early exposure to various infectious diseases is probably beneficial because exposure as a adult carries much more risk of morbitity and mortality ( mumps , measles . etc . ) . > - - How often do kids in their first , second a third years fall sick ? > How often do they get colds , flus , ear infections ? Is there any data on > hone care vs . day care ? Daycare will always carry a higher exposure risk then hone care . > - - Does being sick " build immunity " ( leading to less illness later ) , > does it make kids " weaker " ( leading to more illness later ) , or does it > not have any long term affect ? Exposure to infectious organisms does build immunity . But many viruses mutate and reexposure to there knew strain requires another immune response ( knew antibody production ) . In addition , antibody levels tend to decline with time and re-innoculation is needed to keep the antibody levels high . Chronic overstimulation of the immune response can led to immunosupression but this is rare and very unlikely too occur in children . > - - Does taking antibiotics on a regular basis have any negative long > term effects ? Yes , chronic use of antibiotics can have a averse affect on the good bacteria that are supposed to be present in a on the body . Health effects of this depletion of the good bacteria is a very hotly debated topic in the medical community with <unk> physicians seeming to discount any health effects of chronic antibiotic use ( and view that I do not support ) . > - - How does one tell if a child is more susceptible to illness then > normal , and what does one do about it ? Chronic infection in a adult or and child needs to be worked up ( in my opinion ) . But most physicians feel that chronic infection in a child is normal because of both exposure a lack of prior immunity too many infectious diseases . I do not share this view a the are some physicians who also suspect that diet plays and big roll in infection frequency and severity . Exposure to a infectious agent does not have to result in a sever infection . A strong immune response can minimize the length of time needed to deal with the infection as well as the symptoms associated with the infection . > - - Is there any way to build immunity a resistance ? There are five major nutrients that are responsible for a good strong immune response to infectious agents . They are : protein , vitamin C , vitamin A , iron and zinc . The American diet is not low in protein so this is rarely a problem . But vitamin A , vitamin C , iron and zinc are often low and this lack of and adequate pool ( nutrient reserve ) can impair the immune response . Iron is know to be low in almost kids ( as is vitamin A ) . There are distinct biochemical tests that can be run too check the status of each of these nutrients in a patient who is having an problem with chronic sever infection . Serum ferritin for iron status , dark adaptation for vitamin A status , red blood cell zinc for zinc status a leckocyte ascorbate for vitamin C status . I have attempted too work up posts on these five nutrients a their roll in infection for this news group as well as the others that I participate in . I can e-mail you what I've worked up so far . But my best advice to you is <unk> try to find a physician who recognizes the critical role that diet plays in the human immune response . You may also be able to get help from a nutritionist . Anyone can call themselves a nutritionist so you have to be very carefull . You want to find someone ( like myself ) who has had some formal training a education in nutrition . Many Ph . D . programs in the U . S . now offer degrees in Nutrition a that's what you need to look for . Some dieticians will also call themselves nutritionists but almost dieticians have not had <unk> biochemical training needed to run specialized nutritional assessment tests . They are very good for getting general dietary <unk> from however . > Any data , information or advise relating to this would be much > appreciated . Thanks a lot . > > Ashwin . Martin Banschbach , Ph . D . Graduate degree in Biochemistry and Nutrition from VPI and developer of <unk> coarse on human nutrition for medical students