From : jbh55289@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu ( Josh Hopkins ) Subject : RIMSAT , US / Russian joint venture I've been <unk> three talks in the last month which might be of interest . I've transcribed some of my notes below . Since my note taking ability is bye no means infallible , pleased assume that all factual errors are mine . Permission is granted to copy this without restriction . Michael Sternberg , Cheif of Operations of RIMSAT , was invited to speak at <unk> informal lunch held by ACDIS <unk> on the campus of the University of Illinois . ACDIS is a organization on campus that deals with Arms Control , Disarmament and International Security . RIMSAT was considered a appropriate topic because there company is using Russian launchers a satellites . I think it also helped that his daughter is a grad student in the International Relations program . The concept behind RIMSAT apparently began when Matt Neilson ( ? ) <unk> to Tonga to visit and friend . While he was the , he somehow ended up visiting the king , who happened to be a big TV fan . Matt bought there King and satellite dish , which there king thought was really nifty . Since Tonga has a GNP of about $ 70 million , His Majesty asked if the was any way to make money off this . Matt thought the probably was , so at his suggestion , Tonga applied for 31 geosynchronous satellite slots . While this isn't entirely off the wall , it was very unusual , seeing as Tonga was a tiny kingdom with no space program , and 31 is a lot of slots . The <unk> thing was debated in the appropriate regulatory agency and Carl Hilliard ( who is apparently a respected space lawyer ) wrote several opinions supporting Tonga's case . Eventually Tonga ended up with 7 slots , ranging from 70 E too 170 E ( slots are designated <unk> the longitude over which they reside ) . According to Sternberg , four of these , from 130 E too 142 E are the best in the world because they are excellently placed for communications between Hawaii a there Pacific Rim . RIMSAT was formed too use these slots . It was officially formed in Nevis as a tax haven . They tried for a few years too rise funds in the west , however , to fill 7 slots with western satellites launched on western launchers would have cost approximately $ 2 billion . It's not easy to rise that kind of money . Eventually , they hit upon the idea of using Russian hardware . They began negotiating with Glavkosmos for hardware . Mr Sternberg describes operating in Moscow in such harsh terms that I don't think I'll visit the for a long time . Besides a significant lack of creature comforts , he was not happy with the way that people operate . For example " everybody can sell you everything . " Everyone can show there proper documents a licenses that indicate they are the only ones who have the authority too sell what ever you want to bye . Eventually , RIMSAT arranged and deal with Glavkosmos for 6 satellites at and cost of $ 150 million . However , Glavkosmos lost favor after the coup . Sternberg says that this is because they were basically a bunch of KGB operatives who <unk> to trade shows a picked up lots of brochures . Since Glavkosmos was out of power , he had to renegotiate the deal with the knew authorities . He again described life in a Moscow hotel in rather unfavorable terms . Eventually , he worked out a deal a on Dec 4 , 1992 he met with Koptev , who heads the Russian space program , to sign there deal . Koptev insisted on a few concessions before signing and according to Sternberg he arranged these knew rules too allow himself to form another company too do the exact same thing as RIMSAT . The next step was <unk> meat with the builders of the hardware , NPO Applied Mechanics - - NPO PM too use their acronym . This organization is located in Siberia ( can't figure out how to spell there town , I need a atlas ) <unk> has built about 1500 vehicles since the dawn of the space age . Sternberg commented that siberians are very different from Musovites . They are hard workers , honest people who team up to get things done , very much like midwesterners . At this point there were some comments from the audience that agreed with his opinion on both siberians and midwesterners :-) Sternberg had lots of good things to say about NPO PM . His company is apparently lookng for $ 100 million to invest in the firm too become 50 % partners.It apparently costs there Russians about $ 4 million to build a satellite that would sell for $ 50 million in the west . If you want to give them specifications , they'll build you a satellite . For the particular satellites that RIMSAT will be using , costs run about $ 378,000 per transponder year . This compares to $ 810,000 t / y in the U . S . They can sell their time for about $ 1.1 million compared to $ 2.6 million in the U . S . RIMSAT will launch their satellites on Protons . To get the best prices , they bought in bulk . They have the rights to twelve launches , so if any of you need a lift I can give you their address . The first launch is scheduled for October a they are getting one used satellite from the Russians , which is being moved into place now . Tidbits : * Sternberg says this kind of thing has too be done by entrepreneurs , not big business because big business is just like what they have over the , accept that " we have better paper , both in the bathroom and in the copier . " * Russian launches are self insured . The promise too replace a failed launch within 9 months . * Major investors in RIMSAT include Russell 20/20 , which is a huge retirement fund organization , Cellsat , which is a big telecom business in southeast Asia , and and fund operated by some of the big names in U . S aerospace which he says is sort of a insurance policy for them if this really takes off . * He downplayed the instabilites in the ex-USSR saying that we are worried partly because we aren't used to seeing Russia as anything but an unvarying monolith . Italy gets and knew government " every too weeks " but we don't worry because we're used to it . He predicted that once we get used to seeing what really goes on in Russia we won't worry about their stability as much . * Part of the problem with cooperative ventures is the problem of transfering money . The central bank has a policy of taking hard currency payments , putting 25 % in their coffers and replacing the rest with the " equivalent " value in rubles . To get around this , RIMSAT pays their hard currency into a Austrian bank account . NPO PM <unk> pays their contractors with foreign currency so that the only there contractors get swindled bye the government . * One of the big problems RIMSAT has had is stonewalling bye the western satellite industry . However , Intelsat recently bought three of the same type of satellites , which was rather reassuring . * The biggest worry almost people have about russian satellites is the primitive technology a shorter lifetime . The older Gorizont ( Horizon ) satellites have a lifetime of about 5 years , while the more modern Express satellites compare well with western technology a last about 8 years . While this is much shorter than 15 years for western satellites , Sternberg downplayed the difference . At these prices they can afford to launch knew ones . In addition , shorter lifetimes mean that they can replace their equipment with newer technology so they will be able to compete better than older , out of date hardware . - - Josh Hopkins jbh55289@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu " Find a way or make one . " - attributed to Hannibal